Title
http://japanesenewsintranslation.blogspot.ca/2004/10/from-karoshi-to-karojisatsu.html
The Japanese “karoshi” (death from overwork) entered English as a loan word approximately 10 years ago. A more recent term is “karojisatsu” (suicide prompted by overwork). “Karo” = “overwork” while “jisatsu” = “suicide.” The following landmark case was reported at length in English-language media, so only the bare details are given here. Links to fuller accounts of the story may be found at the end of this post.


Ichiro Oshima, a 24 year-old employee of advertising powerhouse Dentsu, hung himself on August 27, 1991. According to court records, Oshima was responsible for overseeing 40 accounts. His activities involved creating commercials and radio promotion events, as well as chauffering clients to concerts and running errands for them. Over the last 17 months of his life, he worked every day of the week, taking a half day off on just a single occasion. He frequently worked until past 4 A.M., and usually got no more than 2 hours sleep per night before going back to work.

Before his death, Oshima reported to his superior that he was experiencing insomnia, and that he had doubts about his worth as a human.

The company initially asserted that Oshima’s suicide was due to personal problems, but the parents of the deceased filed suit against Dentsu in 1993. Their claim was upheld by the Tokyo District Court in 1996, but the company appealed. In May 2000, the Tokyo High Court proposed that Dentsu pay a 168 million yen settlement, to which the company agreed the following month.


The Dentsu case and those that follow only became public because the employers refused to recognize the deaths as work-related. This forced surviving family members to sue to obtain death benefits and in some cases apologies.

Typically, a story gets reported when the case is filed with the court (lawyers for the plaintiffs make sure the newspapers hear about it). Then, little or nothing will be heard about the case until years later when the court hands down a verdict, whereupon a follow-up article or two will be printed.

To give one more detailed example of karojisatsu, here is a case from a couple of years back.


The wife of Katsuhide Onuki, a 37 year-old college baseball coach who hung himself at home on June 20, 2002, petitioned to have his death recognized as caused by overwork.

At a press conference, lawyers contended that when Onuki was hired as manager of the baseball team at Nippon Sport Science University Women’s Junior College, superiors gave him a quota, as it were, telling Onuki he was expected to capture the league championship once every 3 years. In the 3 months prior to his death, Onuki took no days off. Including time spent in the classroom, on scouting activities, at games and at training sessions, he worked over 300 hours a month, lawyers calculate.


Other karojisatsu stories read the same: conscientious employees going far beyond the call of duty to carry out the responsibilities assigned them, working 16 to 20 hours a day, taking few days off or none at all, doing irreparable damage to their bodies and psyches.

The list below represents a small sample of karojisatsu cases that have made their way into the public eye. We find that defendants in karojisatsu cases include both private and public entities. Note also the ages at which the employees (all males) killed themselves. The list includes several young workers as well as one near retirement, but those in their 40s appear to bear a particularly heavy load.

Location//Date of suicide//Employer//Age at time of death

Aichi Prefecture, August 1988; Toyota Motor Corporation; 35
Oita Prefecture, September 1990; Hita Municipal Government; 41
Okayama Prefecture, June 1991; Kawasaki Steel; 41
Kyoto Prefecture, 1993; Hitachi Zosen Corporation; 46
Hiroshima Prefecture, September 1995; Otafuku Sauce Co., Ltd.; 24
Nagasaki Prefecture, July 1997; Nagasaki Shimbunsha (newspaper); 54
Saitama Prefecture, March 1999; Nikon Corporation; 23 (Temp. worker)
Wakayama Prefecture, March 2000; Wakayama Municipal Government; 46
Shizuoka Prefecture, April 2002; Suzuki Motors; 41
Kumamoto Prefecture, May 2002; Yamada Manufacturing Co. Ltd.; 24

The list could be extended to much greater length, but this suffices to give a sense of the geographic and professional breadth of the karojisatsu problem in Japan.

For further details in English on the Dentsu case and a few other suicides prompted by overwork:

http://www.jca.apc.org/web-news/corpwatch-jp/42.html

http://www.aarrgghh.com/no_way/japWork.htm 